# OR_GATE VHDL Project
## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Main Files](#main-files)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [How to Compile and Simulate](#how-to-compile-and-simulate)
- [License](#license)

## Overview
VHDL implementation and testbench for a basic 2-input OR gate. Includes source code and testbench files for simulation and synthesis practice using ModelSim and VS Code.

## Main Files
- `OR_GATE.vhd`: VHDL code implementing the OR gate entity and architecture.
- `OR_GATE_tb.vhd`: Testbench to simulate the OR gate inputs and observe output behavior.
- `vsim.wlf`: The waveform database file generated by ModelSim during simulation. It stores signal waveforms from your testbench and can be opened in ModelSim’s waveform viewer to inspect and analyze signal behavior over time.

## Requirements
- ModelSim (Intel FPGA Edition recommended) for simulation.
- VS Code (or any text editor) for editing and compiling VHDL code.
- VHDL compiler tools (e.g., `vcom`) properly installed and added to system PATH.

## How to Compile and Simulate
**1- Compile VHDL Files:** In the ModelSim GUI, you can compile manually, go to `Compile` -> `Compile..` -> and then select the required file and its testbench.
Or using Modelsim command line:
```pgsql 
vlib work
vmap work ./work
vcom OR_GATE.vhd
vcom OR_GATE_tb.vhd
```

**2- Simulate Testbench:**
```pgsql 
vsim work.OR_GATE_tb
add wave *
run 40 ns
```
**3- View waveforms:**
Use the ModelSim waveform viewer to inspect signal transitions and verify OR gate functionality.
The `vsim.wlf` file is generated during simulation and contains all waveform data from your testbench. Open it in ModelSim to review or analyze signals.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
